README.md, before:

<span style="white-space: pre;">  

# AGUJA  

2D Esolang (Be gentle, this was made in only a few hours)  

![Alt Text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Earth13wells/aguja/main/code.gif)
### example usage:
```bash
  ~$ gcc aguja.c -o aguja
  ~$ chmod +x aguja
  ~$ ./aguja program.aguja

  or

  ~$ ./aguja program.aguja debug
  ```
### currently compiling with:
  ```bash
   gcc aguja.c -o aguja.o && gcc -O2 -S aguja.c
  ```
| Instruction |   Action                                                        |  
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
|    (        |   Start an infinite non-nestable loop                           |
|    )        |   End the infinite non-nestable loop                            |
|    ^>v<     |   Change direction of IP                                        |
|    !        |   Trampoline (skip next instruction)                            |
|    ?        |   Conditional Trampoline; pop item off stack if not 0; skip     |
|    :        |   Duplicate the top value on the stack                          |
|    ~        |   Remove the top value from the stack                           |
|    $        |   Swap the top two values on the stack                          |
|    @        |   Push user input to top of stack                               |
|    l        |   Push the length of the stack onto stack                       |
|    \+       |    Pop x,y, push x+y                                            |
|    \-       |    Pop x,y, push x-y                                            |
|    \*       |    Pop x,y, push x*y                                            |
|    \,       |    Pop x,y, push x/y                                            |
|    %        |   Pop x,y, push x%y                                             |
|    =        |   Pop x,y push 1 if true, otherwise push 0                      |
|    \"       |    Pushes every character found to the stack until closed       |   
|    /\\      |   90° mirrors change IP direction based on input                |
|    \#       |    180° mirror (Direction agnostic)                             |
|    \|_      |   180° mirrors change IP direction based on input               |
|    .        |   Pop y and x move the IP to (x,y)                              |
|    &        |   Pop as number and print to stdout                             |
|    \`       |   Pop as character and print to stdout                          |
|   \\n       |   Move IP to start of row                                       |
|    ;        |   End the program                                               |

## Hello, Wold     
  ```
    "!dlrow ,olleH"> \`v                                
                  ;^!?<
  ```
## Truth machine    
  ```
    @:?v(99-&)                              
       &                                      
       ;       
  ```
## While program                                   

## 99 bottles      
  ```
    92+9*:& >0"llaw eht no reeb fo selttob ">:?vv                  
    |                                       ^` <v                      
    |      ;^?                     :  &: -1`+91~<                      
  ```                                                            
## Cat   
  ```
  (@`91+`);                                     
  ```           
# warnings:
- The stack may only hold 99 values, this is arbitrary and may be changed going forward
- Currently no way to reverse the stack (I ran out of symbols 🤣)
- If IP is set after a newline stack will get messed up. Just put a space there (warning: some text editors strip these extra spaces out unless a character is placed afterwards)

Commit message:

Made flow controll much more eff

README.md, after:

<span style="white-space: pre;">  

# AGUJA  

2D Esolang  

![Alt Text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Earth13wells/aguja/main/code.gif)
### example usage:
```bash
  ~$ gcc aguja.c -o aguja
  ~$ chmod +x aguja
  ~$ ./aguja program.aguja

  or

  ~$ ./aguja program.aguja debug
  ```
### currently compiling with:
  ```bash
   gcc aguja.c -o aguja.o && gcc -O2 -S aguja.c
  ```
| Instruction |   Action                                                        |  
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
|    (        |   Start an infinite non-nestable loop                           |
|    )        |   End the infinite non-nestable loop                            |
|    ^>v<     |   Change direction of IP                                        |
|    !        |   Trampoline (skip next instruction)                            |
|    ?        |   Conditional Trampoline; pop item off stack if not 0; skip     |
|    :        |   Duplicate the top value on the stack                          |
|    ~        |   Remove the top value from the stack                           |
|    $        |   Swap the top two values on the stack                          |
|    @        |   Push user input to top of stack                               |
|    l        |   Push the length of the stack onto stack                       |
|    \+       |    Pop x,y, push x+y                                            |
|    \-       |    Pop x,y, push x-y                                            |
|    \*       |    Pop x,y, push x*y                                            |
|    \,       |    Pop x,y, push x/y                                            |
|    %        |   Pop x,y, push x%y                                             |
|    =        |   Pop x,y push 1 if true, otherwise push 0                      |
|    \"       |    Pushes every character found to the stack until closed       |   
|    /\\      |   90° mirrors change IP direction based on input                |
|    \#       |    180° mirror (Direction agnostic)                             |
|    \|_      |   180° mirrors change IP direction based on input               |
|    .        |   Pop y and x move the IP to (x,y)                              |
|    &        |   Pop as number and print to stdout                             |
|    \`       |   Pop as character and print to stdout                          |
|   \\n       |   Move IP to start of row                                       |
|    ;        |   End the program                                               |

## Hello, Wold     
  ```
    "!dlrow ,olleH"> \`v                                
                  ;^!?<
  ```
## Truth machine    
  ```
    @:?v(99-&)                              
       &                                      
       ;       
  ```
## While program                                   

## 99 bottles      
  ```
    92+9*:& >0"llaw eht no reeb fo selttob ">:?vv                  
    |                                       ^` <v                      
    |      ;^?                     :  &: -1`+91~<                      
  ```                                                            
## Cat   
  ```
  (@`91+`);                                     
  ```           
# warnings:
- The stack may only hold 99 values, this is arbitrary and may be changed going forward
- Currently no way to reverse the stack (I ran out of symbols 🤣)
- If IP is set after a newline stack will get messed up. Just put a space there (warning: some text editors strip these extra spaces out unless a character is placed afterwards)
- Code lines can only be 128 characters long (for now)
- Code will loop if going right and hits a newline 👍 But no other directions. (on the TODO list)
-
